Ibotta 	FIND OFFERS
EARN MORE
GROCERY
SHOP ONLINE
INVITE FRIENDS
GIFT CARDS

Earn 100% cash back on Thanksgiving dinner through 11/25.*
Welcome to Ibotta
Ibotta helps you earn on groceries, delivery, online purchases, and more. Start every purchase with Ibotta and earn real cash back.

Get real cash
$5


Ready to earn your first bonus? Earn $5 when you redeem your first offer!
All the ways to earn

Grocery pickup & delivery
Shop Grocery pickup & delivery from the comfort of home. Start with the Ibotta app and get cash back on groceries and household essentials. Shop now

In-store essentials
Earn cash back on your groceries. After you shop, submit a photo of your receipt and we’ll match your purchases to qualifying offers in the app. Shop now

Online purchases
Shop your favorite retailer apps or websites through the Ibotta app, and earn cash back on your entire purchase. Shop now

Loyalty linking
Get cash back when you use your linked loyalty account at checkout. Shop now
FAQ
What's an offer?
Offers help you earn real cash back on items you already buy. Before you shop, tap + on offers to add them to Your List.
What's a bonus?
Bonuses are opportunities to earn extra cash by redeeming certain offers. Want to see what current bonuses are available? Tap Earn More on your home screen.
Free Thanksgiving offers
FREE Butterball Turkey Roast

FREE Butterball Turkey Roast

$9.98 cash back

See offer
FREE Idahoan Mashed Potatoes

FREE Idahoan Mashed Potatoes

$1.88 cash back

See offer
FREE Coca-Cola

FREE Coca-Cola

$1.89 cash back

See offer
FREE Campbell's Cream of Mushroom Soup

FREE Campbell's Cream of Mushroom Soup

$0.98 cash back

See offer
FREE Great Value Cranberry Sauce

FREE Great Value Cranberry Sauce

$0.98 cash back

See offer
FREE Great Value Flavored Stuffing Mix

FREE Great Value Flavored Stuffing Mix

$0.82 cash back

See offer
See offers
HOW IT WORKS 	EMAIL PREFERENCES 	HELP CENTER
Ibotta, Inc. 1801 California Street, Suite 400, Den‌ver‌, CO 80202
Privacy | Terms | Unsubscribe
twitter 	facebook 	pinterest 	instagram 	blog
*Offer available while supplies last. Must be 18 years of age, and a US resident. Requires purchase of seven participating products and Ibotta redemption to get full cash back amount of $20.91. Check Ibotta to see if the offers are still available. Redemption must be made within 7 days of purchase. Subject to full terms, available here. All prices, offers, cash back, and bonuses may vary and are subject to change with or without notice. Check the app for details.

Please do not reply to this email. Replies to this message are routed to an unmonitored mailbox. If you need assistance, please visit our Help Center.
Made in Colorado

mountains
©2020 Ibotta, Inc.