
Welcome to Prime
Claim your credit reward now.
You're almost there. Visit www.amazon.com/prime to claim your credit reward, and we'll automatically apply it to your next qualified purchase at checkout.
Claim credit reward
Continue to next step
Track your progress
You can check your progress at any time by following the directions below.
On your phone:
In the Amazon Shopping app, click the menu in the upper left hand corner. Select "Prime".
On your computer:
Simply go to www.amazon.com/prime
©Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Amazon, Amazon.com, the Amazon.com logo, Prime, Amazon Prime, and AmazonFresh are trademarks of Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. Amazon.com, 410 Terry Avenue N., Seattle, WA 98109-5210.

    You need to be a Prime member and signed into your Amazon account to participate in this promotion.
    Offer good while supplies last.
    Offer limited to one per customer and account.
    Digital content and services may only be available to customers located in the U.S. and are subject to the terms and conditions of Amazon Digital Services LLC.
    Shipping charges and taxes may apply to the full value of discounted and free promotional items.
    The maximum benefit you may receive from this offer is $5.
    Promotional credit must be redeemed within 30 days of receiving the promotional credit. The promotional credit may only be used once and may not be combined with other offers.
    Promotional credit may only be applied to products sold by Amazon.com or Amazon Digital Services LLC (look for "sold by Amazon.com" or "sold by Amazon Digital Services LLC" (other than all eBooks and certain digital content) on the product or content detail page) and all eBooks made available through Amazon.com. Products and digital content (except for eBooks) sold by third-party sellers or other Amazon entities will not qualify for this offer, even if "fulfilled by Amazon.com" or "Prime Eligible".
    Taxes may apply to the full value of discounted and free promotional items.
    Amazon reserves the right to modify or cancel the offer at any time.
    Offer is non-transferable and may not be resold.
    Offer discount will be allocated proportionally among all promotional items in your order.
    If any of the products or content related to this offer are returned, your refund will equal the amount you paid for the product or content, subject to applicable refund policies.
    If you violate any of these terms, the offer will be invalid.
    Unless an Amazon Gift Card is the stated benefit of the promotion, promotional credits (including those placed directly in accounts) may not be redeemed for Amazon Gift Cards.