 AWS M&G


Three key actions to improving your operations


Organizations today often deal with making a choice between business agility or governance control. Why choose? AWS Management and Governance services offer you and your team the tools to start innovating today.

Get both agility and control with these 3 key AWS features:

    Enablement: AWS provides a suite of services that gives you a foundation of built-in governance best practices, so you can properly manage the resources you already have.

    Provisioning: AWS services will help automate your setup so you can give your team pre-packaged products they can deploy on their own—easily and instantly.
    Operating your environment: AWS has a modern, integrated approach that’s built for the cloud. That means you can stay on top of your environment, lower costs, and diagnose problems fast.



Enable. Provision. Operate. Do it all with AWS »




You have options: AWS Third-Party Partner Software

Extend the management and governance of your AWS environment with third-party software from these partners.


Cloud Conformity

Enable with Cloud Conformity »

Servicenow

Provision with servicenow »

Cloudability

Cost Control with Cloudability »

Splunk

Continuous Monitoring with Splunk »

AWS on Twitter | AWS on Facebook | AWS on Twitch | AWS Blog | AWS Podcast
My Account | Getting Started | Products | Solutions | Pricing | Partners | Documentation | Training | Events & Webinars | AWS Activate | Marketplace | What's New | Blog | Analyst Reports

View Online


We hope you enjoyed this email. If you'd rather not receive future emails from Amazon Web Services, unsubscribe here.
Amazon Web Services, Inc. is a subsidiary of Amazon.com, Inc. Amazon.com is a registered trademark of Amazon.com.
This message was produced and distributed by Amazon Web Services, Inc. and its affiliates, 410 Terry Ave. North, Seattle, WA 98109.
© 2020, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Read our Privacy Policy.

