https://www.nhs.uk/conditions/coronavirus-covid-19/testing-and-tracing/get-a-test-to-check-if-you-have-coronavirus/

b' Get a free NHS test to check if you have coronavirus (COVID-19) - NHS Skip to main content Search the NHS website Menu Home Health A-Z Live Well Care and support Health news Services near you Home Health A to Z Coronavirus (COVID-19) Testing and tracing for coronavirus Back to Testing and tracing for coronavirus Get a free NHS test to check if you have coronavirus You can have a test (swab test) to check if you have coronavirus (COVID-19) now. Who can get a testOnly get a test if you have coronavirus symptoms or have been asked to get tested. This will help make sure people who need a test can get one. You can get a free NHS test if: you have any symptoms of coronavirus (a high temperature, a new, continuous cough or a loss or change to your sense of smell or taste) you\'re getting a test for someone you live with who has symptoms your local council asks you to get a test you\'re taking part in a government pilot project Do not ask for an NHS test if: you live with someone who has coronavirus but you do not have symptoms yourself \xe2\x80\x93 you need to self-isolate you\'ve been in close contact with someone who has the virus but you do not have symptoms \xe2\x80\x93 you do not need to do anything unless NHS Test and Trace tells you to you\'re going abroad but do not have symptoms you\'ve arrived in the UK from abroad but do not have symptoms \xe2\x80\x93 you need to self-isolate if you\'ve come from a country with a high coronavirus risk your employer or school has asked you to get a test but you do not have symptoms You may need to get tested if you\'re going into hospital for surgery or a procedure. The hospital will arrange this for you. Contact your hospital department if you have any questions.If your employer, school or travel company has asked you to get tested, and you do not have symptoms, you can pay for a private test. When to get a test If you have symptoms, get a test as soon as possible.Book a visit to a test site to have the test today. Order a home test kit if you cannot get to a test site.In England:you need to get the test done in the first 8 days of having symptomson days 1 to 7, you can get tested at a site or at home \xe2\x80\x93 if you\'re ordering a home test kit on day 7, do it by 3pmon day 8, you need to go to a test site \xe2\x80\x93 it\'s too late to order a home test kitIn Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland:you need to get the test done in the first 5 days of having symptomson days 1 to 4, you can get tested at a site or at home \xe2\x80\x93 if you\'re ordering a home test kit on day 4, do it by 3pmon day 5, you need to go to a test site \xe2\x80\x93 it\'s too late to order a home test kit Information: Stay at home if you have symptomsYou must stay at home (self-isolate) if you have symptoms, whether or not you get a test. Find out how long to self-isolate.Anyone in your support bubble must also stay at home. A support bubble is where someone who lives alone (or just with their children) can meet people from 1 other household. Get a test now Important This service is currently very busy. If you cannot get a test now, or the location or time are not convenient, try again in a few hours. Get a test online on GOV.UK. Start now on the GOV.UK website Get help applyingIf you have problems using the online service, call:119 if you\'re in England, Wales or Northern Ireland0300 303 2713 if you\'re in ScotlandLines are open 7am to 11pm. Information: If no tests are available online, do not call the helpline to get a test. No extra tests are available through the helpline. What the test involvesThis test involves taking a swab of the inside of your nose and the back of your throat, using a long cotton bud. It checks if you have the virus now.You can do the swab yourself (if you are aged 12 or over) or someone can do it for you. Parents or guardians have to swab test children aged 11 or under. Information: There is another test, the antibody test to check if you\'ve had coronavirus. This is available on the NHS for some people. Getting a test for someone elseIf other people you live with have symptoms, you can order tests for up to 3 of them.If you\'re applying for a test for someone else, and the person is aged 13 or over, check they\'re happy for you to get a test for them. Urgent advice: If you need medical advice about your symptoms, go to: England: NHS 111 online coronavirus serviceScotland: NHS informWales: NHS 111 WalesNorthern Ireland: get advice from a GP or GP out-of-hours serviceCall 999 if you feel very unwell or think there\'s something seriously wrong. Information: Need help with getting a test?If you\'re having problems getting a test, see answers to common questions about asking for a coronavirus test. Privacy informationCoronavirus (COVID-19) testing: privacy information on GOV.UK More in Testing and tracing for coronavirus Get a free NHS test to check if you have coronavirus Your coronavirus test result Help the NHS alert your close contacts if you test positive for coronavirus If you\'re told to self-isolate by NHS Test and Trace or the NHS COVID-19 app Antibody test to check if you\'ve had coronavirus Page last reviewed: 12 October 2020 Next review due: 19 October 2020 Support links NHS sites About us Contact us Profile editor login Sitemap Accessibility statement Our policies Cookies \xc2\xa9 Crown copyright '