https://www.zdnet.com/article/budget-2020-australias-cyber-dollars-are-full-of-stale-hot-air/#ftag=RSSbaffb68

b' Budget 2020: Australia\'s cyber dollars are full of stale hot air | ZDNet Edition: Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNet around the globe: ZDNet France ZDNet Germany ZDNet Korea ZDNet Japan Search What are you looking for? Videos Windows 10 5G Prime Day Cloud Small Business TV Security more AI TR Premium Working from Home Innovation ZDNet Recommends Tonya Hall Show Executive Guides ZDNet Academy See All Topics White Papers Downloads Reviews Galleries Videos TechRepublic Forums NewslettersAll WritersPreferencesCommunityNewslettersLog Out What are you looking for? Menu Videos Windows 10 5G Prime Day Cloud Small Business TV Security AI TR Premium Working from Home Innovation ZDNet Recommends Tonya Hall Show Executive Guides ZDNet Academy See All Topics White Papers Downloads Reviews Galleries Videos TechRepublic Forums Preferences Community Newsletters Log Out us Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNet around the globe: ZDNet France ZDNet Germany ZDNet Korea ZDNet Japan Budget 2020: Australia\'s cyber dollars are full of stale hot airNew is not new in Australia\'s federal Budget. Almost all of the cybersecurity spending is a re-announcement, and there are few measurable targets. By Stilgherrian for The Full Tilt | October 7, 2020 -- 04:35 GMT (21:35 PDT) | Topic: Security Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison Image: IBM Australia\'s federal budget papers, which dropped on Tuesday night, make it clear just how little attention the government is paying to its cyber policies and to good governance generally.ZDNet has already reported how most of the Budget was pre-announced, with those previously-announced figures included in the totals of supposedly new spending. In reality, though, it\'s even worse.Yes, the "additional $201.5 million" to help deliver the nation\'s disappointing Cyber Security Strategy is just another part of the AU$1.7 billion over 10 years already announced in August. Yes, the vast majority of that total figure is the AU$1.35 billion cyber kitty for the Cyber Enhanced Situational Awareness and Response (CESAR) package already announced with much fanfare back in June.Yes, it\'s a re-announcement of a re-announcement. New is not new.But look more closely and you\'ll see that CESAR isn\'t even an additional investment."This measure will be offset by redirecting funding within the Defence Portfolio," says Budget Paper No. 2. To be fair, CESAR was something that would\'ve been built anyway. Eventually. Probably. It was just given a shiny name to become part of a Scott Morrison prime ministerial announceable. New is not new. Even this is a cyber throwback, according to Labor\'s Shadow Assistant Minister for Communications and Cybersecurity."This government first announced funding for an ASD [Australian Signals Directorate] threat sharing platform in the 2016-17 Budget," Shadow Assistant Minister for Communications and Cybersecurity Tim Watts tweeted."But you know, ANNOUNCING and DELIVERING are different things for this government. Still not delivered yet."And all of this is spread "over 10 years", or three election cycles. The Cyber Security Strategy still doesn\'t specify a target date for any of this happening.According to Home Affairs\' Portfolio Budget Statements, that would be too hard."Due to the ongoing nature of the program, it is not appropriate to set an expected date of achievement," it wrote.I guess that\'s true, given that the strategy itself has so very few measurable targets.Performance targets for the Department of Home Affairs program number 1.8 Cyber Security.Some AU$$37.7 million of the magic and largely mythical AU$1.7 billion goes to the Department of Industry, Science, Energy and Resources to "support industry and academia to develop innovative approaches to improve cybersecurity skills and long-term workforce planning".This is all well and good, but it comes from the renamed "Election Commitment -- Cyber Security Resilience and Workforce Package" that was part of the Mid-Year Financial and Economic Outlook Statement from months ago.The AU$19.1 million for the Department of Home Affairs to "undertake a range of initiatives, including expanding outreach to Australian industry on cybersecurity-related matters, providing support services to victims of identity theft and cybercrime and enhancing cybersecurity awareness among households and small businesses" is partially money that was already allocated to the department. New is not new.The AU$1.6 million to the Commonwealth Ombudsman, intended to monitor the nation\'s controversial encryption legislation and other cybercrime law enforcement powers, is only for the current financial year. The money comes from "redirecting funding", a delightful euphemism, from the Department of Home Affairs.What happens in 2021-2020? The Ombudsman will presumably have to beg for more, or the Telecommunications and Other Legislation Amendment (Assistance and Access) Act 2018 will go without proper independent oversight.Admittedly, the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Intelligence and Security\'s review of the Act is due to report any day now, so maybe the government is holding off allocating money until then. Yes, I\'m sure that\'s it.Given the government\'s poor track record with IT projects more broadly, you might think that it\'d be eager to make sure future projects stay on track.As Crikey\'s Bernard Keane wrote recently, the Australian National Audit Office (ANAO) has been instrumental in uncovering widespread bureaucratic failure, especially when it comes to IT and cybersecurity. But no. ANAO\'s funding is actually being cut from AU$112 million in 2019-2020 to AU$98 million in 2020-2021.One of the few properly new items is AU$39.4 million to the Office of the eSafety Commissioner to cover the increasing demand for its services and, among other things, a new "adult cyber abuse takedown scheme" under the new Online Safety Act.That\'s good, but that law doesn\'t even exist yet. There\'s isn\'t a draft Bill.The more you dig into Budget 2020, the less actual substance there is to find, which is the perfect summary of the Morrison government. Australian Budget 2020 Budget 2020: Everything within Canberra\'s AU$796.5 million Digital Business Plan Budget 2020: Commonwealth Ombudsman scores AU$1.6m to oversee encryption laws Budget 2020: Centrelink services funded and Medicare telehealth sticks Budget 2020: Federal government backflips as R&amp;D tax incentive receives AU$2b boost Budget 2020: Public Service transformation hyped as key to economic recovery Australian government to pour AU$800m in digital business push Australia\'s manufacturing sector to receive AU$1.5b boost from federal government Australian government pledges 10-year, AU$1.35 billion cyber kitty Related Topics: Australia Security TV Data Management CXO Data Centers By Stilgherrian for The Full Tilt | October 7, 2020 -- 04:35 GMT (21:35 PDT) | Topic: Security Show Comments LOG IN TO COMMENT My Profile Log Out | Community Guidelines Join Discussion Add Your Comment Add Your Comment More from Stilgherrian Security Dutton pushes against encryption yet again but oversight at home is slow Security Digital pioneer Geoff Huston apologises for bringing the internet to Australia Security Australia\'s cyber power is more bark than bite Security Why both Huawei and BTS share the cyber stage with powerful nations Please review our terms of service to complete your newsletter subscription. By registering, you agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices outlined in the Privacy Policy. You will also receive a complimentary subscription to the ZDNet\'s Tech Update Today and ZDNet Announcement newsletters. You may unsubscribe from these newsletters at any time. You agree to receive updates, alerts, and promotions from the CBS family of companies - including ZDNet\xe2\x80\x99s Tech Update Today and ZDNet Announcement newsletters. You may unsubscribe at any time. By signing up, you agree to receive the selected newsletter(s) which you may unsubscribe from at any time. You also agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge the data collection and usage practices outlined in our Privacy Policy. Newsletters See All See All Related Stories1of3 Ubisoft, Crytek data posted on ransomware gang\'s siteDetailsabouthackersobtainedthefilesremainunclear.RansomwaregangalsothreatenedtoleakthesourcecodeofWatchDogs:Legion,anupcomingUbisoftgame.... US charges QQAAZZ group for laundering money for malware gangsAmong the QQAAZZ group\'s clients were famous malware groups like Dridex, Trickbot, and GozNym. Iranian state hacker group linked to ransomware deploymentsAmidst rising tensions between Israel and Iran, security researchers fear new escalation. Microsoft: CHERI architecture could slash the number of security patches we release a yearMicrosoft reckons experimental architecture CHERI would have had a big impact on the number of bugs fixed in 2019. New Emotet attacks use fake Windows Update luresEmotet diversifies arsenal with new lures to trick users into infecting themselves. Cyberattack on London council still having \'significant impact\'Hackney Council said it was learning more about the attack. What is a DDoS attack? Everything you need to know about Distributed Denial-of-Service attacks and how to protect against themDDoSattacksareoneofthecrudestformsofcyberattacks,butthey\'realsooneofthemostpowerfulandcanbedifficulttostop.LearnhowtoidentifyandprotectagainstDDoSattacks... Barnes &amp; Noble confirms cyberattack, suspected customer data breachThe bookseller\xe2\x80\x99s security incident also impacted Nook services. Have issues with Facebook collecting your data? Privacy-first alternative MeWe surges to 9M usersIfyouarefedupwithFacebookbecauseofitsprivacyviolationsandelectioninfluencingposts,youmightwanttotryanewsocialmediaplatformthat\xe2\x80\x99sdoingratherwell.... ZDNet Connect with us \xc2\xa9 2020 CBS Interactive. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy | Cookies | Ad Choice | Advertise | Terms of Use | Mobile User Agreement Visit other CBS Interactive sites: Topics Galleries Videos Sponsored Narratives CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info About ZDNet Meet The Team All Authors RSS Feeds Site Map Reprint Policy Manage | Log Out Join | Log In Membership Newsletters Site Assistance ZDNet Academy TechRepublic Forums '