https://www.npr.org/sections/health-shots/2020/09/22/915465093/rural-hospitals-teeter-on-financial-cliff-as-covid-19-medicare-loans-come-due?utm_content=buffer58811&utm_medium=social&utm_source=facebook.com&utm_campaign=buffer

b'Repayment Of Medicare Loans Could Hit Rural Hospitals Hard : Shots - Health News : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player NPR Shop Home News National World Politics Business Health Science Technology Race &amp; Culture Arts &amp; Life Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art &amp; Design Performing Arts Music Tiny Desk All Songs Considered We Insist: A Timeline Of Protest Music In 2020 Music News New Music Music Features Live Sessions Shows &amp; Podcasts Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Fresh Air Up First Featured Louder Than A Riot Throughline The NPR Politics Podcast Up First More Shows &amp; Podcasts Search NPR Shop Tiny Desk All Songs Considered We Insist: A Timeline Of Protest Music In 2020 Music News New Music Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Overview Support Careers Connect Press Ethics Repayment Of Medicare Loans Could Hit Rural Hospitals Hard : Shots - Health News The federal loans were meant to help hospitals survive the COVID-19 pandemic. Yet they\'re coming due now \xe2\x80\x94 at a time when many rural hospitals are still desperate for help. Shots Health News From NPR Your Health Treatments &amp; Tests Health Inc. Policy-ish Public Health Twitter Rural Hospitals Teeter On Financial Cliff As COVID-19 Medicare Loans Come Due The Coronavirus Crisis Rural Hospitals Teeter On Financial Cliff As COVID-19 Medicare Loans Come Due September 22, 20205:00 AM ET Sarah Jane Tribble Enlarge this image More than 65% of the nation\'s small, rural hospitals took out loans from Medicare when the pandemic hit. Many now face repayment at a time when they are under great financial strain. Daniel Acker/Bloomberg via Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Daniel Acker/Bloomberg via Getty Images More than 65% of the nation\'s small, rural hospitals took out loans from Medicare when the pandemic hit. Many now face repayment at a time when they are under great financial strain. Daniel Acker/Bloomberg via Getty Images David Usher, chief financial officer for a 12-bed rural hospital in western Kansas, is sitting on $1.7 million he\'s scared to spend. The money lent from the federal government is meant to help hospitals and other health care providers weather the COVID-19 pandemic. Yet some hospital administrators have called it a payday loan program that is now brutally due for repayment at a time when the institutions still need help. Coronavirus cases have "picked up recently and it\'s quite worrying," says Usher, who is the chief financial officer for Edwards County Medical Center in Kinsley, Kan. He would like to use the federal loan money to build a negative-pressure room; such rooms are a common and effective tool for keeping contagious patients apart from those in the rest of the hospital. Shots - Health News No Mercy: How A Kansas Town Is Grappling With Its Hospital\'s Closure Shots - Health News 1 Year After Losing Its Hospital, A Rural Town Is Determined To Survive But he\'s not sure it\'s safe to spend that cash. Officially, the total repayment of the loan is due this month. Otherwise, according to the loan\'s terms, federal regulators will stop reimbursing the hospitals for Medicare patients\' treatments until the loan is repaid in full. When will the creditor come calling? The federal Centers for Medicare &amp; Medicaid Services has not yet begun trying to recoup its investment, with the coronavirus still affecting communities nationwide, but hospital leaders fear it may come calling for repayment any day now. Hospital leaders across the country say there has been no communication from CMS on whether or when it will adjust the repayment deadline. A CMS spokesperson did not respond to our questions by publishing time. "It\'s great having the money," Usher says. "But if I don\'t know how much I get to keep, I don\'t get to spend the money wisely and effectively on the facility." Usher took out the loan from Medicare\'s Accelerated and Advance Payments program. The program, which existed long before the pandemic, was generally used sparingly by hospitals when they were faced with emergencies such as hurricanes or tornadoes. It was expanded for use during the coronavirus pandemic \xe2\x80\x94 part of billions approved in federal relief funds for health care providers this spring. A full repayment of a hospital\'s loan is technically due 120 days after it was received. If it is not paid, Medicare will stop reimbursing claims until it recoups the money it is owed \xe2\x80\x94 a point spelled out in the program\'s rules. Medicare reimburses nearly $60 billion in payments to health care providers nationwide under Medicare\'s Part A program, which makes payments to hospitals. Shots - Health News Rural Hospitals Are Sinking Under COVID-19 Financial Pressures More than 65% of the nation\'s small, rural hospitals \xe2\x80\x94 many of which were operating at a deficit before the pandemic \xe2\x80\x94 jumped at the Medicare loans when the pandemic hit because they were the first funds available, says Maggie Elehwany, former vice president of government affairs for the National Rural Health Association. CMS halted new loan applications to the program at the end of April. "The pandemic has simply gone on longer than anyone anticipated back in March," says Joanna Hiatt Kim, vice president of payment policy and analysis for the American Hospital Association. The trade association sent a letter to CMS in late July asking for a delay in the recoupment. On Monday, the House Appropriations Committee included partial relief for all hospitals in a new government funding plan. The committee\'s proposal would extend the start of the repayment period for hospitals and the amount of time they are allowed to take to repay. The continuing resolution that includes this language about relief for hospitals (among many, many other things) is still being hammered out, though it does face its own deadline: It must be approved by the House and the Senate within the next nine days or the federal government faces a shutdown. "Still in the middle of this crisis" Tom Nickels, executive vice president at the AHA, says his organization appreciates the House committee\'s effort to address the loans in the new bill, but full forgiveness of the loans is still needed. Sen. Jeanne Shaheen, D-N.H., has called for changes to the loan repayment period for months and said Monday "our work is far from over." Shots - Health News Have Cancer, Must Travel: Patients Left In Lurch After Town\'s Hospital Closes "We are still in the middle of this crisis \xe2\x80\x94 from both health and economic standpoints," Shaheen says. Meanwhile, hospital administrators like Peter Wright are holding their breath, waiting to see if, in order to settle the debt, Medicare will stop making payments to hospitals, even as the facilities continue to grapple with the coronavirus in their communities. "The feds, if you owe them money, they just take it," says Wright, who oversees two small hospitals for Central Maine Healthcare in Bridgton, Maine. He says his health care system took the money because "we had no other choice; it was a cash flow issue." For many hospitals, Medicare payments make up 40% or more of their revenue. Not being reimbursed by Medicare would be crippling \xe2\x80\x94 akin to a household losing nearly half its income. "We have no idea what we\'re going to do if we have to pay it back as quickly as they say," Wright says. In rural Kentucky, hospital executive Sheila Currans says she "vacillated" for about a week or so, trying to decide whether to tap the loan program for her hospital \xe2\x80\x94 she knew it would have to be repaid and worried that could prove difficult. "It was a desperate time," says Currans, chief executive of Harrison Memorial Hospital in Cynthiana, Ky. In early March her hospital was the first in the state to treat a COVID-19 patient, she says. The hospital immediately quarantined dozens of staff members at the time and shut down elective procedures. Once COVID-19 was confirmed in the community, there was a "horrible fear" among residents of getting infected, Currans says, and that kept people from seeking outpatient care as well. "Through March and April and most of May, I was in a complete spiral," Currans says, and by the end of April her hospital was losing millions of dollars. To cope with the pandemic, she furloughed staff and turned one wing of the hospital into a "cough clinic" to be used exclusively by patients whose symptoms suggested they might be infected with the coronavirus. Currans says the hospital is still seeing cases of COVID-19 show up, but other patients are beginning to return for services, too, such as at the outpatient clinics. In terms of the hospital\'s finances, "it\'s still not a wonderful time," Currans says, adding that the Medicare loan and other support from the federal government "helped us \xe2\x80\x94 at least for now \xe2\x80\x94 survive it." She\'s hoping the repayment demand will be pushed back to 2021 or, perhaps, the loan will be forgiven. "I know it\'s a pipe dream," Currans says. "But this has been a historic event." Kaiser Health News is a nonprofit, independent program of the Kaiser Family Foundation, and is not affiliated with Kaiser Permanente. Sarah Jane Tribble spent more than a year and a half reporting on a Kansas town that lost its only hospital. This month, KHN and St. Louis Public Radio will launch "Where It Hurts," a podcast exploring the often painful cracks growing in America\'s health system. You can listen to Episode 1 of the podcast\'s first season, "No Mercy," on Sept. 29. coronavirus in the U.S. rural hospitals Centers for Medicare &amp; Medicaid Services rural health Medicare Shots Health News From NPR Read &amp; Listen Home News Arts &amp; Life Music Podcasts Programs Connect Newsletters Facebook Twitter Instagram Contact Help About NPR Overview Finances People Press Public Editor Corrections Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Events Visit NPR Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only NPR thanks our sponsorsBecome an NPR sponsor '