https://www.nationalhealthexecutive.com/articles/nice-sign-guidance-covid-19?utm_source=National%20Health%20Executive&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=11876185_NHE%20Newsletter%206th%20October%202020&utm_content=Article%203%20read%20now&dm_i=IJV,72JQ1,N76CKF,SJXYV,1

b' NICE and SIGN announce guidance to address persistent effects of Covid-19 | National Health Executive Skip to main content Main navigation NewsNewsNewsEstates and FacilitiesMental HealthPharmaPolicy and FinanceService Design and DeliverySocial CareTechnology and InnovationWorkforce and DevelopmentBackNewsEstates and FacilitiesMental HealthPharmaPolicy and FinanceService Design and DeliverySocial CareTechnology and InnovationWorkforce and DevelopmentAnalysisPartner ContentPodcastMagazineMedia Pack Subscribe NICEScottish Intercollegiate Guidelines NetworkRCGPPaul ChrispProfessor Martin MarshallLong CovidCoronavirusAuthor: Matt RobertsJob Title: Editorial LeadCompany: National Health ExecutivePublished: October 6th 2020 Share this article Share on LinkedIn Share on Twitter Share on Facebook Share on Reddit NICE and SIGN announce guidance to address persistent effects of Covid-19 New guidelines on persistent effects of Covid-19, sometimes referred to as Long Covid, on patients is set to be developed following an announcement by NICE and the Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network (SIGN) that they are set to undertake the work alongside RCGP.NICE and SIGN will develop the guideline jointly with the RCGP, alongside an independent cross-specialty clinical group.Persistent symptoms of Covid-19 have been reported by people regardless of how ill they were initially or whether they were hospitalised. These have included on-going shortness of breath, fatigue, heart, lung, kidney, neurological and musculoskeletal problems.It is estimated there could be as many as 60,000 people in the UK who are suffering from the long-term effects of Covid-19.The guidelines will address, among other things, a formal definition of the disease, how to identity on-going symptoms and a definition of the best practice investigation and treatment options to support the management of the condition across diverse communities.It is expected that the guideline on the longer-term patient impact of Covid-19 will be published by the end of the year.Paul Chrisp, Director of the Centre for Guidelines at NICE, said: \xe2\x80\x9cThere is growing evidence to suggest Covid-19 is a multi-system disease that for many people involves persistent symptoms with longer term impacts on their health.\xe2\x80\x9cIt is important, therefore, that people requiring ongoing support and treatment are identified quickly and are supported by the NHS throughout every stage of their journey. We also want to ensure that clinicians have clear guidance on how best to support patients struggling with this newly emerging disease.\xe2\x80\x9dProfessor Martin Marshall, Chair of the Royal College of GPs, said: \xe2\x80\x9cTreating or managing any new virus or condition is a challenge for healthcare professionals whose priority is always trying to deliver the best possible care for their patients.\xe2\x80\x9cThe College is delighted to be working with both NICE and SIGN to develop this guideline.\xe2\x80\x9cIt aims to support GPs and other healthcare professionals to ensure all patients with long term effects of Covid-19, including those diagnosed in the community irrespective of whether they received a positive test or not, can be cared for in the best possible way, based on the latest evidence.\xe2\x80\x9d Share this article Share on LinkedIn Share on Twitter Share on Facebook Share on Reddit Stay up to date with email alerts By signing up you agree to our terms &amp; conditions and privacy policy.\xc2\xa0 NHE Sep/Oct 20 Building notes, business cases and the next generation. Click here to read the Sep/Oct issue of NHE magazine, as we delve intothis issues key topis including;\xc2\xa0digital innovation, estates and facilities, and training and development.\xc2\xa0 Read Now Videos... View all videos Ep 13. Accessing the full range of careers available, Anth... Anthea Hockly, Associate Director of Workforce Development and Learning at Essex Partnership University NHS FT (EPUT), joins us to talk about the new... Ep 12. The key words: \'cashless, user experience and reven... On Episode 12 of NHE\'s Finger on the Pulse podcast, I\'m joined by Michelle Nix of Parking Eye as we discuss the ways their car park solutions can... Ep 11. Using automation technology to make time matter, Da... On this episode of NHE\'s Finger on the Pulse podcast, host Matt Roberts is joined by Darren Atkins, Chief Technology Officer (Artificial Intelligence... Ep 10. One part of the mental health toolkit, Nicholas Row... Mental health has always been an area of significant discussion in the health sector, from clinicians to solution through to prevention. But, on... Ep 9. Telemedicine: Effectiveness at all levels of the org... Telemedicine has been one of the emerging areas of progress during the coronavirus pandemic, with a much more widespread and rapid adoption of remote... Ep 8. Engagement with the community &amp; industry was vital, ... Throughout this coronavirus period, the topic of personal protective equipment (PPE) and the availability of supplies for our healthcare workers has... Ep 7. Keep the doors open to creativity, Baroness Ilora Fi... Baroness Ilora Finlay, Chair of the National Mental Capacity Forum and a Professor of Palliative Care, joins NHE\'s Matt Roberts to talk about efforts... Ep 6. Unless we change the game we are going to lose, Henr... In Episode 4 of #WeAreNHE podcast we are joined by Henry Jones, CEO of digital mental health organisation Big White Wall. As Henry explains, with... Ep 5. Mental health is not a life sentence, Stewart Lucas Strategic Lead for Mind in Greater Manchester, Stewart Lucas, joins us for this on the go podcast to discuss mental health care in the UK and how he... Ep 4. Shifting the burden of care, Mark Duman In Episode 4 of #WeAreNHE podcast we are joined by Mark Duman, Chief Patient Officer at MD Healthcare Consultants. He believes strongly in patient... Ep 3. From Turning Point to NHS Confed - Lord Victor Adebo... Chief Executive of social care enterprise, Turning Point, Lord Victor Adebowale, joins us for the third NHE podcast, giving us insight into the... Ep 2. Mental health doesn\'t happen in isolation, Dr Claire... Claire Watson, recovery academy lead at Greater Manchester Mental Health NHS Foundation Trust, joins us on the second-ever NHE podcast, talking us... Ep 1. This is quite controversial. Health in GM, Dr Tracey... Dr Tracey Vell MBE, chief executive of Manchester LMC, clinical director of Health Innovation Manchester and associate lead for primary care at the... Survey Where are you on your pager replacement journey? Here at\xc2\xa0NHE, we\'re investigating\xc2\xa0how the NHS is responding to the phase-out of pagers in hospitals.Take out short survey - to thank you for your time, we\'ll enter you into a prize draw to win a \xc2\xa350 Amazon voucher. Start the Survey Finger on the Pulse Ep 14. Health messaging is a science, Professor Craig Jackson On Episode 14 of NHE\'s Finger on the Pulse podcast, we\'re joined by Professor Craig Jackson, Professor of Occupational Health PsychologyBirmingham City University to discuss the coronavirus pandemic, the health messaging around it and how those in power have missed a trick by overlooking the key role of psychology in informing the public of restrictions, measures and the ever-changing situation Listen Now Understanding the NHS shift to cloud and automation technologies Take part in our survey to help us to understand the NHS shift to cloud and automation technologies.\xc2\xa0\xc2\xa0 Online therapy: meeting the challenges of cost, severity and complexity Download the East London Foundation Trust case study on how they\'re leading the way to innovation in mental health and community health services. More articles... View all Why health messaging is vitally important during coronavir... Coronavirus has dominated health in 2020. The virus itself has had significant impacts on people across the country directly, but also required the... Funding boost for Covid-19 mental health research Six new research projects have been awarded a share of \xc2\xa32m funding by NIHR and UKRI to investigate and reduce the impacts of Covid-19 and the pandemic... Changes to medicines and medical devices evaluation propos... As part of wide-reaching work being carried out to review the methods and processes NICE uses to develop guidance, the organisation has launched a... New \xc2\xa3400m funding commitment to revamp mental health facil... Dormitory accommodation in mental health facilities in the UK is set to become a thing of the past in the next four years, following a new \xc2\xa3400m... Engaging campaigns that deliver! Thanks for completing the form. Personalised dementia care in care homes receives \xc2\xa31.2m fu... NIHR and UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) have awarded \xc2\xa31.2m to support the development of an innovative online programme designed to improve and... Action to be taken to stimulate NICE guidance use with sys... Following the publication of a report by the Independent Medicines and Medical Devices Safety (IMMDS) Review in July, NICE has outlined action it will... Partnership struck to significantly boost lab testing capa... The UK Government has struck another partnership agreement with four London university labs which will see testing capacity boosted by tens of... Sir Simon Stevens outlines five-part package to boost NHS ... Speaking at the NHS Providers conference, NHS Chief Executive Sir Simon Stevens has outlined the five core elements of a package of measures designed... News Partner Content Podcast Events Stay up to date with email alerts By signing up you agree to our terms &amp; conditions and privacy policy. Sector News Estates and Facilities Mental Health Pharma Policy and Finance Service Design and Delivery Social Care Technology and Innovation Workforce and Development Sector News Magazine Partner Content Podcast Videos General Editorial Board Media Pack Privacy Policy Terms &amp; Conditions Stay In Touch Contact Us Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Subscribe Twitter Copyright Cognitive Publishing Ltd 2020 '