https://www.herefordtimes.com/news/18777666.second-student-tests-positive-coronavirus-herefordshire-school/?ref=twtrec

b' Second student tests positive for coronavirus at Herefordshire school | Hereford Times Piano meter debugger Data returned from the Piano \'meterActive/meterExpired\' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services. These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience \xe2\x80\x93 the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times. Love Local SUBSCRIBE Jobs Homes Motoring Book an ad Local Listings Local Info Contact us Hereford 5\xc2\xb0c Our Facebook feedsHereford Times on FacebookFootball at Hereford TimesOur Twitter feeds@HTnewsroom Register Sign in Register Sign in Register Sign in News Sport Love Local Business Awards Letters Hereford FC E-editions What\'s On Announcements News Coronavirus Outbreak On Farm Leominster Letters Sport Football Rugby Golf Cricket Love Local Business Awards Food &amp; Drink Awards TCF Farming Awards Health &amp; Social Care Awards Letters Hereford FC E-editions All Herefordshire Living Three Counties Farmer Hereford Business Times Prime What\'s On Add event Nightlife Exhibitions Fairs &amp; Markets Walks Theatre &amp; Comedy Music &amp; Dance Announcements Death Notices Public Notices In Memoriam Acknowledgements Birthdays Anniversaries Greetings Births All Obituaries Second student tests positive for coronavirus at Herefordshire school Menu News \xc2\xa0 Second student tests positive for coronavirus at Herefordshire school By Charlotte Moreau @CharlieMoreauHT Reporter Wigmore High School 0\xc2\xa0comment STUDENTS at another Herefordshire school are self-isolating after a second student tested positive for coronavirus. In a letter sent home to parents, Wigmore Academy Trust executive headteacher Dr Rob Patterson said he was sorry to report that earlier today (October 7), staff were informed of a second positive case of coronavirus in a Wigmore School student. Because of the time elapsed, the school believes the case is unrelated to a previous case on September 24, but said they wish to ensure that there is no further spread from this new case. "We have contacted Public Health England and as a result of this communication the following additional steps will now be taken by the school," the letter said. "All students that are in the same \xe2\x80\x98bubble\xe2\x80\x99 will be required to work from home, returning to school on October 16. This is for Year 10. We will provide a separate letter for Year 10 parents explaining the process of self-isolation. Work will be provided for all lessons through Microsoft Teams and your child should log onto this from home to access their normal timetable lessons for each day. Also read: Coronavirus shuts Hereford nursery More coronavirus cases found in Herefordshire "Face coverings for all students at the high school continue to be compulsory whilst on school transport unless there is a medical reason not to and that this pupil has a supporting note to this effect "All High School students will be required to wear a face covering in all indoor areas of the school until Friday 16th October at the earliest, again with the exception of those with a medical exemption. "All students should endeavour to stay at least 1 metre from each other if they are in the same bubble and ensure that they are at least 2 metres away from any member of staff or a student in another bubble "Parents of students at the primary school may wish to consider their child wearing a face covering, but we do not believe there are any close contacts with primary children." Dr Patterson said he was sure other schools will also be facing this challenge in the weeks ahead as cases rise and that he could not guarantee that the school will not have to face this matter again, but said he assured parents the school will act speedily and robustly in everything they do to help protect the community and families at home. 0\xc2\xa0comment Sorry, an error occurred. Sign in or register leave a comment or rate a comment Most read Commented Loading... Read more Get involved with the news in your community Send your stories and photos now \xc2\xa0 By Continue reading \xc2\xa0 By Continue reading \xc2\xa0 By Continue reading \xc2\xa0 By Continue reading Coronavirus case confirmed at Herefordshire primary school Bottle of vodka was found beneath crashed car\'s seat, court hears 3 Coronavirus: Reports of children with Covid-19 symptoms rocket 7 Poacher caught with illegally hunted birds 4 Nightclub could be turned into fine dining venue Two arrested on M5 after police find drugs and a machete This is how much Herefordshire\'s coronavirus infection rate has risen this week 1 Who will be crowned our care heroes? Here\'s the full list MBE for Herefordshire hairdresser who\'s one of the world\'s best Most popular Commented Loading... Read more Contact Us Newsletters Photo Sales Newsquest Printing Advertise Archive Site Map Announcements Leap Exchange and Mart Terms &amp; Conditions Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Manage Consent Terms of Advertising Contributor Terms Diversity Statement Ipsoregulated This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation\'s Editors\' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then please contact the editor here. If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here \xc2\xa9Copyright 2001-2020. This site is part of Newsquest\'s audited local newspaper network. A Gannett Company. Newsquest Media Group Ltd, Loudwater Mill, Station Road, High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire. HP10 9TY | 01676637 | Registered in England &amp; Wales. Love Local SUBSCRIBE Love Local SUBSCRIBE Jobs Homes Motoring Book an ad Local Listings Local Info Contact us News Coronavirus Outbreak On Farm Leominster Letters Sport Football Rugby Golf Cricket Love Local Business Awards Food &amp; Drink Awards TCF Farming Awards Health &amp; Social Care Awards Letters Hereford FC E-editions All Herefordshire Living Three Counties Farmer Hereford Business Times Prime What\'s On Add event Nightlife Exhibitions Fairs &amp; Markets Walks Theatre &amp; Comedy Music &amp; Dance Announcements Death Notices Public Notices In Memoriam Acknowledgements Birthdays Anniversaries Greetings Births All Obituaries '