https://www.abc.net.au/news/2020-10-07/nsw-coronavirus-test-numbers-need-to-rise-after-three-new-cases/12740420

b' Why NSW will not be rid of coronavirus any time soon - ABC News (Australian Broadcasting Corporation) ABC Home Open Sites menu ABC Home News iview TV Radio Kids Shop More Search AustraliaWeather Just InPoliticsWorldBusinessAnalysisSportScienceHealthArtsFact CheckOther Breaking news Melbourne\'s 14-day coronavirus average has fallen to 8.7 after two cases were recorded overnight. There were no deaths. Live blog Follow our live blog for the latest news on the coronavirus pandemic Email Why NSW will not be rid of coronavirus any time soon By Jonathan Hair Updated October 07, 2020 23:55:42 Photo: People in NSW have been warned that they\'ll need to live with COVID-19 until a vaccine is developed. (Reuters: Lindsey Wasson) Related Story: Alert issued for Fitness First gym, Kmart and Sydney Westfield after NSW records three mystery COVID-19 cases Related Story: Eleven new COVID-19 cases recorded in NSW as virus detected in Sydney sewage water Related Story: What\'s the risk of getting coronavirus from touching surfaces? Map: NSW The truth is, despite no new locally acquired coronavirus cases being recorded in NSW for the past 12 days, Australia\'s most populous state has never been rid of the virus. Key points:NSW\'s COVID-19 testing numbers have been falling Asymptomatic cases are being blamed for keeping the virus circulating The three new locally acquired cases are not believed to be related Premier Gladys Berejiklian has continually warned that, despite new infections flatlining, coronavirus was still "lurking" in the community. On Wednesday, Ms Berejiklian confirmed the end of the streak, with three locally acquired infections to be included in Thursday\'s numbers.Testing rates have plummeted in NSW and Mary-Louise McLaws, an epidemiologist from the University of NSW, warned just because authorities aren\'t finding new cases, doesn\'t mean they don\'t exist."It would appear to be unusual to start getting three cases, but up to 20 per cent of all cases are asymptomatic," Professor McLaws said.The epidemiologist said these asymptomatic carriers were likely the reason the virus could remain undetected in the community. LIVE UPDATES: Read our blog for the latest news on the COVID-19 pandemic. NSW Health has a target of 8,000 tests per day, but that number has dropped off, with 5,970 tests reported in the previous 24 hours.Since July 1, NSW has averaged more than 19,000 tests per day, but in the past week the mean is just 8,457.There have been days during the pandemic where 24-hour testing numbers have been above 30,000. But during one 24-hour reporting period this week, fewer than 5,000 tests were carried out."That is potentially a third, to a half, too low," Professor McLaws said. Photo: This COVID-19 testing clinic at Bondi Beach was deserted today. (ABC News: Brendan Esposito) The time it was taking people to get tested is also a concern, according to Professor McLaws."It is taking time to get to the clinic to get tested, often it takes people about three days," she said.For example \xe2\x80\x94 in the week ending September 19, eight new locally acquired coronavirus cases were found in NSW.Three were in isolation at the time of diagnosis and for at least 48 hours before developing symptoms.Of the remaining five cases, three sought testing within two days of developing symptoms, and two of these cases had begun isolation within two days of their onset of illness.Two cases took more than three days after developing symptoms to go into isolation. What\'s the real COVID-19 vaccine timeline? Experts warn we don\'t know enough to rely on the Government\'s estimate of a vaccine in 2021. The alarm was raised on Tuesday, when wastewater testing found traces of the virus in the Hawkesbury and south-west Sydney areas.NSW Health also described Sydney\'s declining testing numbers as "a concern", while Ms Berejiklian warned people to get used to cases popping up, until a vaccine is developed."In NSW where we have an open economy, where people are getting about their business, where we are hosting major events, we absolutely need the community to be vigilant," she said."But we also have to accept that there is always that element of risk that we need to manage."Going for a test was especially important for people in the Hawkesbury and south-west Sydney areas, NSW Health confirmed. Photo: Epidemiologist Mary-Louise McLaws is hoping the latest outbreak is a small cluster with a linked source. (News Video) Professor McLaws said she was surprised the three locally acquired cases were not believed to be related."It\'s a worrying time," she said."I\'ll be waiting with bated breath, wondering what were the sources for each of these three cases and are they linked."One would hope that they\'ve been linked, it\'s surprising that they\'ve come up all at the same time."I\'m hoping that they\'re a small cluster with some linked source." What you need to know about coronavirus:Who needs to wear a face mask in Victoria and whenThe symptomsThe number of cases in AustraliaGlobal cases, deaths and testing rates External Link:Ask us your coronavirus questions Topics:health,diseases-and-disorders,covid-19,epidemics-and-pandemics,nsw,sydney-2000 First posted October 07, 2020 17:26:21 Contact Jonathan Hair More stories from New South Wales More Health News Dr Karl explains how door handles made of copper could help fight COVID Does exercising harder help you live longer? Many of us may feel anxious as we head into bushfire season. How can you tell if you need help? Top Stories No super, no sick leave and after 18 years, university teacher Stephen Baker has \'nothing to show\' (photos) Live: National Cabinet postponement won\'t delay plans to repatriate overseas Aussies Australian Defence Force orders ban on destruction of evidence from war in Afghanistan Why are so many politicians defending Berejiklian? There are two main reasons Live: Maguire\'s business partner met with Premier \'at Daryl\'s place\', ICAC documents reveal Kathy\'s energy bill was so huge she cried. Her power company blamed COVID-19 (photos) \'The mood is definitely changing\': Frustration over Melbourne\'s lockdown mounts as business begs for restrictions to be eased US election polls show Biden taking the White House from Trump, but there\'s more to the story French doctors feared they weren\'t ready for a second virus wave. Now it\'s crashing over them Your boss can use surveillance tech to track the work you do from home. But should they? Australian cotton the latest casualty in trade tensions with China Why auction theory won two American economists a Nobel Prize ICAC case almost over but still a long way to go for Daryl Maguire Remember what happened in the last census? Work is underway to make sure that doesn\'t happen again (photos) \'Doesn\'t seem fair\': Land tax hike hits family shack retreat (photos) China convinced the Solomons to switch allegiances. Its one rebel province is now in line for $35m in US aid Calls for stronger coronavirus controls as Howard Springs prepares to take in stranded Australians There was supposed to be a presidential debate today. Here\'s what we\'re getting instead SPORT Cameron Smith\'s detractors appear blinded by cliched taunts and false accusations Why an Australian MP wrote to Nike over factory workers\' rights in Cambodia Deadly dust reforms will come too late for 35yo backing push to protect future workers This documentary tackles the prison system with a story of epic love, resilience against the odds Millions of Londoners face new restrictions with city to enter tier 2 coronavirus lockdown Kamala Harris staffer tests positive for COVID-19, campaign travel paused SPORT \'They\'re like our friends, our family\': Horse racers throw support behind jumps racing report Queen visits military research centre in first outing since UK lockdown ASIO warns foreign spies are secretly \'cultivating politicians\' across Australia \'There go the pigeons\': The little-known tale of Richmond\'s Woosha Squad (photos) Connect with ABC News Got a news tip? If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC. ABC Backstory ABC teams share the story behind the story and insights into the making of digital, TV and radio content. Editorial PoliciesRead about our editorial guiding principles and the standards ABC journalists and content makers follow.Learn more Features Friday news quiz There were some big winners in the news this week, but will you be among them? Or will you be shocked, disappointed, outraged or possibly even stunned at your efforts? Are we just going to have to get used to dealing with outbreaks? In recent days both NSW and Victoria have recorded very similar numbers of locally transmitted coronavirus cases. Is this just the new normal and what does that mean for those states that are currently more or less coronavirus-free? Unemployment stays below 7pc By business reporters Rachel Pupazzoni and Michael JandaAustralia\'s unemployment rate doesn\'t look so bad at 6.9 per cent, but economists and job hunters agree that the reality is far worse than the official numbers suggest. Chinese Australians questioned about loyalties By Toby MannYun Jiang went to the Senate to speak about issues facing the Chinese diaspora community in Australia, but was instead questioned about her loyalty to Australia. Top Stories No super, no sick leave and after 18 years, university teacher Stephen Baker has \'nothing to show\' Live: National Cabinet postponement won\'t delay plans to repatriate overseas Aussies Australian Defence Force orders ban on destruction of evidence from war in Afghanistan Why are so many politicians defending Berejiklian? There are two main reasons Live: Maguire\'s business partner met with Premier \'at Daryl\'s place\', ICAC documents reveal Kathy\'s energy bill was so huge she cried. Her power company blamed COVID-19 \'The mood is definitely changing\': Frustration over Melbourne\'s lockdown mounts as business begs for restrictions to be eased US election polls show Biden taking the White House from Trump, but there\'s more to the story French doctors feared they weren\'t ready for a second virus wave. Now it\'s crashing over them Your boss can use surveillance tech to track the work you do from home. But should they? Just In Coronavirus concerns cause cancellation of three major Australian golf events Fatal fuel tanker crash melts road at Meadows in Adelaide Hills Will you have a winner\'s grin like Dylan Alcott after this week\'s news quiz? Calls for stronger coronavirus controls as Howard Springs prepares to take in stranded Australians Live: National Cabinet postponement won\'t delay plans to repatriate overseas Aussies Aussie dollar sinks below 71 US cents, as Wall St falls on COVID and stimulus woes Deadly dust reforms will come too late for 35yo backing push to protect future workers This documentary tackles the prison system with a story of epic love, resilience against the odds Your boss can use surveillance tech to track the work you do from home. But should they? Live: Maguire\'s business partner met with Premier \'at Daryl\'s place\', ICAC documents reveal Most Popular Analysis &amp; Opinion Why are so many politicians defending Berejiklian? There are two main reasons Canberrans haven\'t elected an independent MLA this century. Is this about to change? Cameron Smith\'s detractors appear blinded by cliched taunts and false accusations US election polls show Biden taking the White House from Trump, but there\'s more to the story NSW\'s \'corrupt old town\' has a long history of political scandal and honey pots Why is the anti-abortion lobby backing the LNP, when the Opposition Leader doesn\'t want to talk about it? Europe\xe2\x80\x99s second wave is worse than the first. It should have learned from Vietnam Money is flowing into a stricken Pacific, but one country is conspicuously absent Berejiklian is defending her integrity, Andrews his competence, but one is in more danger Why a Port Adelaide-Brisbane grand final does not need an asterisk next to it Site Map Sections ABC News Just In World Business Health Entertainment Sport Analysis &amp; Opinion Weather Topics Archive Corrections &amp; Clarifications Local Weather Sydney Weather Melbourne Weather Adelaide Weather Brisbane Weather Perth Weather Hobart Weather Darwin Weather Canberra Weather Local News Sydney News Melbourne News Adelaide News Brisbane News Perth News Hobart News Darwin News Canberra News Media Video Audio Photos Subscribe Podcasts Newsletters Connect Contact Us This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced. AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of GMT (Greenwich Mean Time) Change to mobile view Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility ABC Help Contact the ABC \xc2\xa9 2020 ABC '